
P1L37. I would change "Young researchers in forecasting" to "Researchers new to forecasting" or something not about age.

P2L36-40. While I disagree with Jenkins' original statement, I wouldn't completely dismiss it as "untrue" and go to the other extreme. I believe building a forecasting model is a systems engineering process. Human brain has to be part of the process. I would say "model building is best done by the human brain and computers together and is inevitably an iterative process."

P3L19. Not sure if "insults" is the right word there. Maybe changing it to "questioning the competency of the analyst". I personally believe that the competency of the analyst does affect the forecast accuracy significantly.

P4L24. Please elaborate "the second was not strictly time series forecasting."

P4L39. Please explain why the DSES method was not included. If it was not in a published literature, can you ask Spyros and put the answer in this paper? Otherwise, you are leaving the readers wondering why not include DSES.

A general comment to Section 2: somewhere in this section, either beginning or end, it's better mention your definition of "time series" competition. Did you mean to say that explanatory variables were not provided?

P6L39. I don't think "consensus" is the right word there. Many researchers are still advocating ANN and those blackbox models for time series forecasting.

P6L49. I think it's better characterize Kaggle platform for "data mining" competitions rather than "prediction" competitions.

P7L30-32. I don't think the info presented there is up to date. I believe Kaggle later changed it's way to calculate the leaderboard. For GEFCom2012, the public leaderboard was based on one subset of the test data, while the final leaderboard was based on a different subset of the test data. There is no overlap between the two subsets.

P7L45. "three" --> "five".

P7L56. The statement is true for the wind power forecasting track. The load forecasting track asked the contestants to backcast a few sections of missing data "and" to forecast one week after the historical period.

P8L13-17. The qualifying match of GEFCom2017 is about ISONE data. The final match involves 183 delivery point meters. See the intro paper I submitted in Dec.

A general comment to Section 4: Maybe you can add a paragraph or a few sentences to comment on how to disseminate the competition results and findings. such as the importance of formal publications after the competitions. There were many other forecasting competitions in the past, but the ones that are really helpful to the research community are the ones organized with academic journals that can publish findings, data and insights afterwards.
